# census_income_project
This was the first fully-independent project that I undertook upon earning the Data Science Career Path completion certificate from Codecademy. I was interested in working with this data for a number of reasons. First and foremost, the data are in the Public Domain (as stated on https://www.kaggle.com/uciml/adult-census-income) and were uploaded by the UCI Machine Learning group, so I was reasonably sure that I could achieve a clear result using the data to answer the question posed. The second reason I was intereted in the data was because of the clear, well-posed question posted by the Kaggle page. Lastly, I was interested in the data set because it had relatively few features (15), a modest number of records (just over 32,500), and no null/NaN values; this seemed to make the data set ideal for a first independent project. 

Ultimately, I was able to build a supervised machine learning model which achieved a precision of 77% and an accuracy of 83%. The details of the supervised machine learning models I built, as well as how I decided upon the features used to train the models, can be found in the PowerPoint presentation I uploaded to this repository. The name of the presentation file is "adult_census_presentation.pdf."

The code I used to build supervised machine learning models aimed at predicting income, as well as the exploratory data analysis I did on the data, can be found in the file "adult_census_income_predictions_MAC.ipynb." The Jupyter Notebook file is fully commented and contains a good deal of expository text aimed at guiding the reader through my thinking as I worked toward answering the question "Can I determine whether a person makes over $50K a year?" adult_census_income_predictions_MAC.ipynb uses Python 3.0 as well as the libraries Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Scipy, and scikit-learn. 

The data used to build the supervised machine learning models has been included; the filename is "adult.csv." The data were downloaded from https://www.kaggle.com/uciml/adult-census-income; the Kaggle repository indicates that the data are in the Public Domain. According to the download page, the data were extracted from the 1994 Census bureau database by Ronny Kohavi and Barry Becker (Data Mining and Visualization, Silicon Graphics). The following paper was cited:
Ron Kohavi, "Scaling Up the Accuracy of Naive-Bayes Classifiers: a Decision-Tree Hybrid", Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 1996. See https://www.kaggle.com/uciml/adult-census-income for further details.

An earlier version of the project, with little to no commenting and very little expository text, has been included; the filename is "adult_census_income_MAC.ipynb." I have included this file so that the reader can see how I approached the model building and what things I tried before arriving at my final model(s). It uses Python 3.0 as well as the libraries Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Scipy, and scikit-learn. 

